world leaders and heads of Aid groups
have met in Paris to discuss getting
humanitarian Aid to people in Gaza the
talks aimed at mobilizing funding and
emergency assistance they're also
dealing with how to set up supply lines
for essential resources including water
fuel and electricity Caroline janz is
the Belgian minister of development
cooperation in major cities you're
joining me live from Brussels Minister I
have a press statement in my hands that
says uh Belgium is also increasing its a
yes we will um provide us an additional
Supply of2 million EUR and that brings
our total Aid humanitarian Aid to the
Palestinians this year 2023 at 22
million Euros so you're calling for a
number of things again I'm reading from
the statement here but you're calling
for a number of things I'd like to take
them um one by one one is Belgium is
calling for the opening of other border
crossings not just
Rafa yes I think it's very clear you
have mentioned the humanitarian
catastrophe there is no water no
supplies no uh medicines no food so it's
uh very very critical that as much
humanitarian Aid as possible can enter
into Gaza and um I've been informed that
on a usual day before October 7th there
were 500 trucks necessary um to supply
what gazans need and um now we have like
we have seen like 600 trucks coming in
by Rafa since October 7th so the
catastrophe and and the suffering is is
uh disproportionate and is inhuman so
there are three border crossings into
Gaza from Rafa the one that opens up
once in a while from Egypt but there are
two more from Israel um at Iris and Kim
Shalom and we'd like to call also the
Israeli government to open up these
border crossings for extra humanitarian
Aid because people are suffering inside
the Gaza Strip it's uh it's Israeli
hostages who are suffering but it's also
um ordinary Palestinian citizens a lot
of children that are suffering a lot and
I think it's important that more
humanitarian Aid gets into the Gaza
Strip and there are many many people
whether it's people countries or Aid
agencies that would agree with that
position but Israel isn't exactly
listening is it so you know it's one
thing to call for more humanitarian Aid
call for more border crossings to be
open what do you do if then Israel just
says no which essentially it has been
saying yeah I think the International
Community has to mount the pressure
that's uh that's very clear also the
Americans the European Union other Arab
states the Arab League we have to amount
a pressure because it's essential
well that will be uh that will be a
dialogue at first s but also the Belgian
government for instance is uh
considering the recognition of the State
of Palestine because I think we can only
solve and end this violence um through
negotiations um Palestinians and
Israelis alike have the right to live in
peace to live in security and that means
that we also uh next to the state of
Israel that has been recognized we have
to recognize uh the exist of the State
of Palestine and that's the only um
tenable solution in the long term for
peace and security for both peoples
Minister Minister I'm going to have I'm
going to have to run but you said
something very important you are
considering recognizing the state of
Palestine as a way to put pressure on
Israel what is the threshold that would
bring Belgium to cross that Rubicon and
recognize um recognize the state of
Palestine sorry if I misspoke earlier
recognize the state of
Palestine well I think it's it's
important that we given a signal with a
lot of European member states um like
bigger member states like Spain are
considering the same and um what we will
also do and I think that's important uh
to tackle impunity we will fund an
additional 5 million euros to the
international criminal court because
there has to be independent um there has
to be independent um research on what is
happening in Gaza right now there are
atrocities being um being run by GA by H
by Hamas in Gaza and by the Israeli uh
Defense Forces so it's important that
the international prosecutor of the IC
gets his job
done Minister Caroline janz thank you
very much for joining us on the program
here on ales today